---
layout: blog/post
title:  "Week 8"
author: J370
categories: [ Portfolio 1 ]
image: assets/images/posts/week8.jpg
---
Started off with a basic outline of what our project is about!

We decided to name our project Extreme Control. It is going to be an application that is targeted at android users as of now. The app itself is used to minimize the time that people spend on their devices.

Some of the functions that the application has are the types of control, logging as well as app usage statistics.

The types of controls include Parental, Self as well as AI Powered control. In parental controls, parents are able to limit the time that children spend on their devices. Limitation of device usage does not only apply to children and anyone who wants to limit themselves are able to do so with self control. In both cases, the control can be in the form of limiting based on app categories. How an app is controlled can be preset manually or through an AI which learns from users based on their habits.

Manual presets can be done by the user or parent themselves or by a list of recommendation which has the categories; easy, medium, hard and extreme.

The AI might be useful in cases such as if an user needs to spend more time on an app due to work related activities.

Furthermore, logs can also be provided in terms of pictorial representations. Showing data such as most used apps as well as their category. This can be further filtered by the user to display information that they want to view.

Parents themselves has a higher privilege over their child where they can overwrite certain settings as well as getting logs on their activities.

With this all planned out, we did a presentation to our lecturer and got some useful feedback  on how we can improve on the application as a whole.