---
layout: blog/post
title: "FP2 Assignment 1"
author: J370
tags: [ Fundamentals for IT Professionals 2, Declassified ]
categories: [ School ]
image: assets/images/posts/fp2a1.jpg
---
## Pre-Reflection

Our class oversaw two classes, one at Nee Soon Central Community Club and the other at Chong Pang Community Club. CCs and Libraries are frequent locations to hold such training sessions due to their accessibility. Our target audience were elderlies whom are interested in gaining a better understanding of technology. I believe as Singapore progress; we should not leave anyone behind; but instead share our knowledge. We were split into groups which were tasked with various skills that were to be taught to the students. I was helping in the preparation of resources to teach the students on the usage of email applications.

As a group, we discussed on the best approach that we should take. It was tough on us at first as we had no prior knowledge on how such classes were conducted. As such, we were at a loss on what resources were to be included. In the end, our group settled on providing slides which can be presented to the students. However, it was later told that there were no projectors where we can present the slides. We decided one way is to print slides for each student which in our opinion might be wasteful on resources. Therefore, we consider this a last resort.

Previously, I had been tasked to teach students on how to utilise technology. However, in contrast to this project, my group was smaller and was not open to the public. As such, I knew the individuals. It was easier for me to manage on what I should teach as I can target the students to suit their individual needs. Additionally, teaching resources were provided. This time around; while I suggest giving the same tactics a try; I doubt that it will be effective with such a big group and I believe only time would tell the results. I hope that my previous knowledge will be of use this time round.

While I had been to the beneficiaries before, I am not aware of how they run behind the scenes and can take this opportunity to get to know the process in running such classes. I believe that we should stand in the view of the elderlies and understand the challenges which they face. We also need to consider if their understanding towards a certain topic might be different from us. Sensitive content should be well deliberated before saying. 

In my opinion, I find projects like this engaging and meaningful. Personally, I enjoy teaching others on technology and engage in similar sessions outside of school. Therefore, when I heard that the school have such a project, I was keen to make use of this session as a form of experience. I feel excited and look forward to the service learning. But before that, I probably need to research more on the functions and features of the email applications that we will be teaching.

## Post-reflection

Throughout the service learning, I kept in mind my goal of getting to better understand the difficulties to which the older generation has when it comes to catching up with technology. At the same time, I hope that through the lesson, the elderlies will embrace the use of technology in their daily lives. Before the sessions, I made a point to find out the features that were included in the email application.

For the first session, I did a makeup with another class at the CDAC branch at Red Hill. As one of the other students happen to be with me on my way there, I tried my best to understand their experience which they had from the previous session. As much as I hope that I was well-prepared; it being my first time; I got a little lost due to how restless everyone was as well as being unaware of what was planned for the senior citizens. I did whatever I could to get the schedule and help wherever I could. Most students stood at the back and only a few came forward to help the elderlies to their place.

This was not helpful as the elderlies did not know if they were at the right location. Nevertheless, the elderlies were energetic and chatted with their friends as they moved along. It was a sight to see how cheerful the elderlies were and almost seem to radiate throughout the atmosphere. Not before long, everyone had a partner to which they could help. I believe in everyone’s heart there is an objective to help the elderlies understand technology better by the time they leave the room.

During the session, we had a speaker but most of the time we interacted with the elderlies to provide one on one help. I spent my time helping one of the elderlies who like others mostly had specific questions that were related to them.

Throughout the entire session, what I found most interest was a discussion which I had with the seniors. We talked about the learning outcomes that they experienced during similar sessions. Some elderlies found such sessions to be irrelevant to them due to their age. This was quickly contrasted by debates from the others that we should use any opportunities to upgrade ourselves. At the same time, they took the opportunity to share their views on the younger generations. Many of them expressed that we should better understand our mother tongues, sharing that it was rare to see students who are fluent in their mother tongue.

There were some lessons to which I find inspiring and took as an inspiration was from the interaction of an elderly in her 70s. Not taking her age as a hinderance, she continues to learn new knowledge whenever possible. In fact, when she entered the class, many of the other students greeted her and shook her hand. I then realised that she is a teacher at the centre and taught English. While I felt that her Chinese was great, she said that she is not a Chinese-speaking person and that she had been learning Chinese for the past few years. Additionally, she was very knowledgeable when it comes to using her phone. Seeing that she is very active in the society is very impressive at how she is always hungry for new skills.

Not before long, we had a final session on the importance of cyber security. We had a photograph and bid farewell to one another. As it felt like a long exhausting day, there were individuals who rushed off afterwards and forgotten to place all the chairs back to their original positions. Nonetheless, it was quickly settled, and the staff was thankful of our help.


On the second session, I joined my module group this time round. Just weeks before, most of them were talking to me on the difficulties that they faced in the previous session. They feedbacked that there were many struggles in conversing with the elderlies as well as long preparation times. I got a little sceptical on whether we might face the same issues this time round and had my hands crossed that everything will be smooth sailing. As such; this time round; I shifted my goal to focus more on getting the elderlies to better comprehend the topics that were taught.

This time round, we had a few hiccups with some of the iPhone users as most of their children had helped to set up their devices, and they were not aware of the password. Through this, I get feedback similarly that they do not see any usefulness in learning new applications. While I felt this to be saddening, I suggested that they can contact their children to get access to download applications. At the same time, we did our best to share some features which our devices are capable of. They were impressed and I felt a sense of accomplishment.

For this session, I was the speaker to present our slides. As we were lucky to have a visualiser and an emulator running, I decided to do away with the slides and did a step by step run through with the elderlies. In my opinion, what we covered in our slides might have had been too complex. If I were to redo them, I will cut down on what is to be taught. I learnt that main features were more important to be covered than every feature which exists.

While I had not planned for it, I ended up presenting for most of the remaining time as the content covered was small or that the other presenters were not willing to come up to the stage. Additionally, while I appreciated the help from Jian Zhen who was reminding me of the time, I felt that he might have been too frequent in his reminders that there were times when he interrupted the lesson. If we were to do it differently the next time, it will be helpful to plan out a more discreet way at conversing with the speaker.

What I felt I should have done beforehand is to look more into the other slides that were being taught. As I had not used social media before, the slides were new to me and I was not familiar with what was to be taught. As such, I had trouble with the terms that were used to explain certain functions of the applications. Luckily, Zhan Yan and a few other students from the other class came up to present on the topic of the various social media applications.

I remembered clearly that during one occasion, the students managed to send a funny image to each other over WhatsApp. When I went pass and saw the elderlies laughing, it immediately felt like everything that we were trying to teach them was well worth it. In fact, we had so much fun that they began sending more messages over WhatsApp and Facebook.

A quality of being thankful, I believe most of us showed our appreciation to the elderlies who had helped built up the nation. Gratitude can be in the form of a give and take. While we thought them how to use their mobile devices, we learnt a lot of valuable lessons. I for one am admired at how they were able to persevere and being a support to one another in times of doubt. I believe gratitude cannot be measured and must come from the heart. Most of the time when we are in the shoes of others, we start to appreciate and better understand one another.

I am grateful to my parents and in particular my father. Like the spirits which the elderlies exhibit there; while he is currently in the workforce; He makes it a point to take on courses every year. Seeing that he is always learning motivates me and makes me grateful of his contribution towards our family. I am also grateful that I am economically stable. There are many others of my age who might not be schooling but working just to support their families. Being in Singapore is a privilege that we have and should be thankful for.

While there are modules that teaches the values that one should uphold, I believe that not only Ngee Ann but the education in Singapore can invest more time and resources when building up one’s moral values. For example; in ancient Chinese culture; most parents will want their children to first learn moral values at an early stage in their life. Now however, lessons such as Character and Citizenship Education is only limited to 2 hours a week. Furthermore, some of these lessons can easily be replaced if the teacher has yet to finish the earlier lesson. While Singapore might be an economically driven nation, I believe that more should be done to impart character within individuals.

When it comes to life lessons like gratitude, I believe it is easier to start from a young age. Like the Chinese saying; it takes 3 years to learn a good habit but only 3 days to learn a bad one; I feel that outside of home, the school can also do their part by encouraging morally upright behaviours over educational results. As taught in the Great Learning, one’s moral is the base towards a great nation. This is also as exhibited in the time of Yao Shun Yu Tang, the country was well managed and everyone morally upright. An example is that people can leave their doors open without being afraid that someone will rob them. It was also a period of prosperity within the nation. One way that we can accomplish gratitude might be to first impart values. As I suggested, gratitude can be felt if one understands another person and without the right values, it is very hard for one to experience the difficulties that others might face.

After the entire service learning, I will rate the application of our skills a 9 while the entirety a 7. I believe that in preparing for the trip, most of us had learnt a lot with regard to the topic that we were given. Using tools like the emulator and visualiser is one way of showing our knowledge with technology. Whereas, I feel that when it comes to our presentation, more is to be done so that the elderlies can have an unforgettable experience. Be it the community club or NGOs, I feel that they are working for a common goal and should work hand in hand instead of comparing them with each other. To add on, it might be great if seniors can share their experience beforehand to provide assistant and set a guideline.

If needed, the government can provide curriculum to NGOs as a basis to standardise what is to be learnt across the board. And no, governments are not solely responsible for the ageing population. It is the responsibility of all the citizens to take care of one another. While the government can set a basis and role model, everyone must do their part so that it is effective.
Other than elderlies, I would like to get to know the other services that is offered. It is important for such organisations to exist as a base to allow people in the community to gather as one. I currently support a few other organisations and will not hesitate to broaden my support.

In light of this learning journey, it helps broaden my experience to mass teaching. In the future, I can consider similar sessions to a wider audience. At the same time, I do not the importance that everyone has deferring needs and there are still times that one to one teaching is one of the best methods.