---
layout: blog/post
title:  "iReview"
author: J370
categories: [ Portfolio 2 ]
image: assets/images/posts/reviewFinal.png
---
Final landing site that we showcased to the judges.

## All good things have to come to an end
Now that we had presented, it is time for me to review myself and recap on my learning journey. Adjourning has always present at the end of every project. While there were not many emotional periods, I believed that the team had definitely gained a lot from one another.

## Name Changes XD
From Singlish to unBiased to uReview, we had pivoted 3 times. It does however show the flexibility of the agile development process.

## Open source is the way to go
There were times where our team could have had shared their thoughts with others but we usually kept to ourselves. This meant that each of us had our own perceptions on what we hope to achieve, and also meant that there were quite a bit of disagreements in the later processes. Instead, if something requires improvement, we shouldface it head on and do not wait till the last minute.

## My minor contributions
I must admit that this time round, I was not fully prepared with what is installed for us. There were a lot of knowledge that we did not know beforehand and most of the AI related work were of us looking through the various research papers and seeing the projects that others had did. This time around, I did not managed to work on the AI but rather focus on other backend issues like the search and map features. Additionally, I had also worked on the food review section which we decided ultimately to integrate into the entire system.

## Thanks to the team
Once again, I believe this entire project would not have had been a fun and engaging one without the active partication of my group as well as the guidiance from various lecturers. This had definitely been a fruitful experience.